AlsaCVS
=======

### From the ALSA wiki

Jump to: [navigation](#mw-head), [search](#p-search)

***This page assumes a level of technical competence and computer
knowledge above that of most computer users. Please follow its
instructions carefully and be prepared to go to other websites for
clarification.***

Alsa's CVS can be checked out by following the instructions below.

Create a new directory with nothing in it and move into it:

` `

    mkdir alsacvs
    cd alsacvs

Download the cvs of alsa:

[This is the link to the main ALSA drivers, not the CVS
versions.](http://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Download)

Rsync is a quick and easy method of keeping up with the latest ALSA HG

` `

    rsync -avz --delete rsync://alsa.alsa-project.org/hg your_directory

You should get this: - and a few others ` `

    alsa-driver  alsa-kernel  alsa-lib  alsa-utils

Start by compiling the kernel modules, so go into the alsa-driver
directory: ` `

    cd alsa-driver

Run the autoconf command to create the configure script

Try to find out which card module you will need.

` `

    ./configure --help

and look at the --with-cards list and try and find yours. For me it is
emu10k1 (for Audigy 2) and usb-audio (usb based sound card.)

` `

    ./cvscompile --with-cards=emu10k1,usb-audio

That should have compiled your alsa-drivers. To install them:

` `

    make install

Only if you are not using the devfs (device file system) remember to do
"snddevices" now. snddevices

Now compile and install the rest of alsa. ` `

    cd ../alsa-lib
    ./cvscompile
    make install

    cd ../alsa-utils
    ./cvscompile
    make install

For debian specific user (SID): I successfuly compiled alsa cvs using
these version of program:

-   automake (GNU automake) 1.7.9
-   Autoconf version 2.13
-   ltmain.sh (GNU libtool) 1.5.6 (libtool)

After running ./cvscompile, look at Makefile.in and check it says
something at the top like "\# Makefile.in generated by automake 1.7.9
from Makefile.am

See also
--------

-   There is a more recent howto on the [official ALSA
    wiki](http://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/SourceCodeRepository).

Retrieved from
"[http://alsa.opensrc.org/AlsaCVS](http://alsa.opensrc.org/AlsaCVS)"

[Category](/Special:Categories "Special:Categories"):
[Installation](/Category:Installation "Category:Installation")

