Ad1816a
=======

Quick Install
-------------

NB. If you are using cvs then you need to type

    ./cvscompile

instead of

    ./configure.

In a shell type these commands:

Make a directory to store the alsa source code in.

    cd /usr/src
    mkdir alsa
    cd alsa
    cp /downloads/alsa-* .

Now unzip and install the alsa-driver package

    bunzip2 alsa-driver-xxx
    tar -xf alsa-driver-xxx
    cd alsa-driver-xxx
    ./configure --with-snd-card=ad1816a  --with-sequencer=yes;make;make install
    ./snddevices

Now unzip and install the alsa-lib package

    cd ..
    bunzip2 alsa-lib-xxx
    tar -xf alsa-lib-xxx
    cd alsa-lib-xxx
    ./configure;make;make install

Now unzip and install the alsa-utils package

    cd ..
    bunzip2 alsa-utils-xxx
    tar -xf alsa-utils-xxx
    cd alsa-utils-xxx
    ./configure;make;make install

Now insert the modules into the kernel space.

    modprobe snd-ad1816a;modprobe snd-pcm-oss;modprobe snd-mixer-oss;modprobe snd-seq-oss

Now adjust your soundcards volume levels. All mixer channels are muted
by default. You must use a native mixer program to unmute appropriate
channels,for example alsamixer from the alsa-utils package

    alsamixer

-   NB. Some soundcards don't utilise the alsamixer program so you will
    need to learn how to use the [amixer](/Amixer "Amixer") program

You can also look at the utils/alsasound file. This script is designed
for the RedHat distribution, but it can be used with other distributions
which use System V style rc init scripts. This will allow you to load
your modules at boot time. Of course if you want to do this you could
just compile them into the kernel instead and save yourself the hassle
of coming to terms with the rc init scripts.

Setting up modprobe and kmod support
------------------------------------

NB. Before you send a mail complaining that "I don't have
/etc/modules.conf, where do I find it ....." ,The /etc/conf.modules has
been deprecated with a few distro's so in your case, it may still be
/etc/conf.modules. Basically they are both same, but recent version of
modutils uses /etc/modules.conf instead. Nothing to worry about as such,
optionally please update to latest version of modutils. This should
solve your problem.

Here's the example for this card. Copy and paste this to the bottom of
your /etc/modules.conf file.

    # ALSA portion
    alias char-major-116 snd
    alias snd-card-0 snd-ad1816a
    options snd-ad1816a

    # OSS/Free portion
    alias char-major-14 soundcore
    alias sound-slot-0 snd-card-0

    # card #1
    alias sound-service-0-0 snd-mixer-oss
    alias sound-service-0-1 snd-seq-oss
    alias sound-service-0-3 snd-pcm-oss
    alias sound-service-0-12 snd-pcm-oss

To copy and paste the above to your /etc/modules.conf file follow these
[instructions](/Instructions "Instructions").

See also
--------

-   [http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/doc-php/template.php?module=ad1816a](http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-doc/doc-php/template.php?module=ad1816a)
