Ca0106
======

### From the ALSA wiki

Jump to: [navigation](#mw-head), [search](#p-search)

This is the wiki page about **Creative Labs Audigy LS** alsa driver.
It's called snd-ca0106 - formerly known as snd-audigyls.

**Important: Audigy LS cards do not work with the EMU10K1-driver!**

Below information is taken from James Courtier-Dutton's comments in the
driver sources.

Supported cards
---------------

1.  SB Audigy LS
2.  SB Live 24bit - capture from analog inputs already works fine

FEATURES currently supported
----------------------------

-   Front, Rear and Center/LFE.
-   Surround40 and Surround51.
-   Capture from MIC an LINE IN input.
-   SPDIF digital playback of PCM stereo and AC3/DTS works.
-   (One can use a standard mono mini-jack to one RCA plugs cable.
-   or one can use a standard stereo mini-jack to two RCA plugs cable.
-   Plug one of the RCA plugs into the Coax input of the external
    decoder/receiver.)
-   ( In theory one could output 3 different AC3 streams at once, to 3
    different SPDIF outputs. )
-   Notes on how to capture sound:
-   The AC97 is used in the PLAYBACK direction.
-   The output from the AC97 chip, instead of reaching the speakers, is
    fed into the Philips 1361T ADC.
-   So, to record from the MIC, set the MIC Playback volume to max,
-   unmute the MIC and turn up the MASTER Playback volume.
-   So, to prevent feedback when capturing, minimise the "Capture
    feedback into Playback" volume.
-   The only playback controls that currently do anything are: -
-   Analog Front
-   Analog Rear
-   Analog Center/LFE
-   Analog Side ( controls the side speakers when adressing them
    directely through hw:0,3 )
-   SPDIF Front
-   SPDIF Rear
-   SPDIF Center/LFE
-   SPDIF Unknown ( couldn't test it but i assume this does the same as
    analog side for digital. )

-   For capture from Mic in or Line in.
-   Digital/Analog ( switch must be in Analog mode for CAPTURE. )

-   CAPTURE feedback into PLAYBACK

-   To capture sound with the SB Live 24bit analog input you must set
    the "Digital source" control to "i2s in".

Hardware information
--------------------

-   Model: SB0310
    -   P17 Chip: CA0106-DAT
    -   AC97 Codec: STAC 9721
    -   ADC: Philips 1361T (Stereo 24bit)
    -   DAC: WM8746EDS (6-channel, 24bit, 192Khz)

-   Model: SB0410
    -   P17 Chip: CA0106-DAT
    -   AC97 Codec: None
    -   ADC: WM8775EDS (4 Channel)
    -   DAC: CS4382 (114 dB, 24-Bit, 192 kHz, 8-Channel D/A Converter
        with DSD Support)
    -   SPDIF Out control switches between Mic in and SPDIF out.

-   Model: SB0413
    -   P17 Chip: CA0106-DAT
    -   AC97 Codec: None.
    -   ADC: Unknown
    -   DAC: Unknown
    -   Trying to handle it like the SB0410.

Retrieved from
"[http://alsa.opensrc.org/Ca0106](http://alsa.opensrc.org/Ca0106)"

[Category](/Special:Categories "Special:Categories"): [ALSA
modules](/Category:ALSA_modules "Category:ALSA modules")

