Via8233
=======

### From the ALSA wiki

Jump to: [navigation](#mw-head), [search](#p-search)

Via do not produce sound cards but their motherboard chip sets do
provide the interface for an audio chip mounted on the motherboard. See
[Sound Cards:
Introduction](/Sound_Cards:_Introduction "Sound Cards: Introduction")
for details.

The Via8233 southbridge chip manufactured by [VIA
Technologies](?title=VIA_Technologies&action=edit&redlink=1 "VIA Technologies (page does not exist)")
can act as the computer interface to an [AC97-compatible](/AC97 "AC97")
audio chip. The options available will depend on the audio chip chosen
by the motheroard manufacturer but it should still be possible to drive
the system using the Alsa via82xx driver,

Contents
--------

-   [1 Notes](#Notes)
-   [2 Setup](#Setup)
-   [3 Configuration](#Configuration)
    -   [3.1 .asoundrc](#.asoundrc)
    -   [3.2 Multi-Channel Output](#Multi-Channel_Output)
    -   [3.3 MPU-401 MIDI](#MPU-401_MIDI)

-   [4 Features](#Features)
-   [5 ALSA native device support](#ALSA_native_device_support)
-   [6 OSS/Free setup](#OSS.2FFree_setup)
-   [7 Trouble shooting with the module
    name](#Trouble_shooting_with_the_module_name)
-   [8 Options in /etc/modules.conf](#Options_in_.2Fetc.2Fmodules.conf)
-   [9 Issues](#Issues)
    -   [9.1 Poor sound quality](#Poor_sound_quality)
    -   [9.2 Alternative Solution to Poor Sound Quality
        Problem](#Alternative_Solution_to_Poor_Sound_Quality_Problem)
    -   [9.3 The "Poor Sound Quality Problem" solved
        ...](#The_.22Poor_Sound_Quality_Problem.22_solved_...)
    -   [9.4 Repeating Sounds](#Repeating_Sounds)
    -   [9.5 DXS channels](#DXS_channels)
    -   [9.6 Problems with recording on via8233
        rev.60](#Problems_with_recording_on_via8233_rev.60)
        -   [9.6.1 [2004-04-26] Whitelist](#.5B2004-04-26.5D_Whitelist)

    -   [9.7 Still no sound but everything seems to work
        fine?](#Still_no_sound_but_everything_seems_to_work_fine.3F)

Notes
-----

It seems that the ALSA 0.9 Via8233 driver only works in [OSS emulation
mode](/OSSEmulation "OSSEmulation").

Setup
-----

The module name for the Via8233 driver is "snd-via82xx". Visit the
[modules.conf](?title=Modules.conf&action=edit&redlink=1 "Modules.conf (page does not exist)")
article to find out how to configure your system to recognize your card.

Configuration
-------------

### .asoundrc

The .[asoundrc](/Asoundrc "Asoundrc") file can be used to modify the
performance and operation of your card.

### Multi-Channel Output

Some Via chips support 6 channel output through the line in, line out,
and microphone jacks. Enable 'Mic As Center/LFE' and 'Line-In As
Surround' with alsamixer to use this. If you want to play 2 channel
sound files over all 6 channels, see [this
Howto](/Playing_stereo_on_surround_sound_setup_(Howto) "Playing stereo on surround sound setup (Howto)").

### MPU-401 MIDI

The ["MPU-401 MIDI setup
howto"](/MPU-401_MIDI_setup_(Howto) "MPU-401 MIDI setup (Howto)")
describes how to configure the MPU-401 capabilities of the Via8233 card.

Features
--------

-   [MPU-401](?title=MPU-401&action=edit&redlink=1 "MPU-401 (page does not exist)")
    [MIDI](/MIDI "MIDI") -
-   [SPDIF](/SPDIF "SPDIF") -
-   Multi-channel - Up to 6 output channels are supported.
-   16-bit and 20-bit sample word size.
-   48 kHz and 96 kHz sample rate.

ALSA native device support
--------------------------

` `

    alias char-major-116 snd 
    alias snd-card-0 snd-card-via8233 

For version 0.9 of the alsa drivers, the name of the modules is changed
to snd-via8233:

` `

    alias snd-card-0 snd-via8233

OSS/Free setup
--------------

` `

    alias char-major-14 soundcore 
    alias sound-slot-0 snd-card-0 
    alias sound-service-0-0 snd-mixer-oss 
    alias sound-service-0-1 snd-seq-oss 
    alias sound-service-0-3 snd-pcm-oss 
    alias sound-service-0-8 snd-seq-oss 
    alias sound-service-0-12 snd-pcm-oss 

Trouble shooting with the module name
-------------------------------------

If you have the following message in your log, you may be a user of
alsa-driver-0.9.6 or later :

` `

    Can't locate module snd-via8233

Then rename via8233 to via82xx in `/etc/modules.conf` and check
available via module names like this :

` `

    thocar@linux:~/d/Labo/alsa-driver-0.9.6> find -name "*via*"
    ./modules/snd-via82xx.o
    ./pci/via82xx.c
    ./pci/via82xx.o
    ./pci/snd-via82xx.o
    ./alsa-kernel/pci/via82xx.c

Options in `/etc/modules.conf`
------------------------------

A quick way to create a complete set of `/etc/modules.conf` entries is
to run the script alsaconf in the `alsa-driver/utils/` directory. (The
`alsaconf` script can also be used to play a test sound - read its man
page (kept in the same directory) for details.)

There are a few parameters to the snd-via82xx options line that control
some of the unique features of the VIA 82xx chips. The features
themselves are documented officially in
alsa-driver-0.9.x/alsa-kernel/Documentation/ALSA-Configuration.txt

A nice detailed explanation of when you might use each option to fix
various noise problems can be found in the ALSA mailing list:
[http://www.mail-archive.com/alsa-user@lists.sourceforge.net/msg08159.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/alsa-user@lists.sourceforge.net/msg08159.html)

Issues
------

### Poor sound quality

In some circumstances you can observe that sound quality is very poor
(whistling, annoying harmonic distortions, especially noticeable in
high-frequency area), which at first glance is strange because windows
drivers on the same hardware plays nicely. This happens because the
sound card contains two PCM devices (called pcm0p and pcm1p under alsa).

The first PCM device exhibits such behaviour (it is intended for
four-channel output). If you instruct the applications to use the second
PCM device, the distortions disappear. If your application is using the
old /dev/dsp interface, instruct it to use /dev/adsp instead. If your
application is ALSA-aware, instruct it to use second pcm device (you can
set ALSA\_PCM\_DEVICE to 1 before running the application, if your
.asoundrc honours this variable - you can do 'aplay -L 2\>.asoundrc' and
then edit it a little by hand - remove first and last lines).

.asoundrc to use pcm1p ` `

       pcm.via82xx
       {
           type hw
           card 0
           device 1
       }
       ctl.via82xx
       {
           type hw
           card 0
       }

-   Distorted Sound

Too high output volume-settings will heavily distort or equalize your
sound. 50% on both Master and PCM output will get you normal sound.

-   S/PDIF Output

To output to S/PDIF, simply play through the hw PCM device as normal. If
no sound comes out (There may be a few seconds' buffering delay), try:

If the playback device indicates a link is present, but makes no sound,
check the mixer 'IEC958 Playback AC97-SPSA'. The S/PDIF always outputs
at full volume - even muting the master or PCM mixers does not affect
the S/PDIF volume. The meanings of the settings for 'IEC958 Playback
AC97-SPSA' are ` `

       0. PCM1
       1. PCM2,PCM1 (rear)
       2. Centre and LFE
       3. PCM3,Modem,Dedicated S/PDIF

Most users will want it set to 0 (PCM1). Some of the 82xx chips have a
dedicated S/PDIF port, which is (I assume) accessed by setting it to 3
(Dedicated S/PDIF). The default appears to be 3.

Some EPIA (Mini-ITX) motherboards have a jumper to switch the phono port
on the back between S/PDIF and Composite Video. Make sure it is in the
correct position. If it is in the wrong position, there is a good chance
that the playback device will not indicate a link. You can also try the
'ac97\_quirk' option if the volume level is very low (probably due to
switched master & headphone controls): ac97\_quirk - AC'97 workaround
for strange hardware (-1 = default) ` `

       -1 = default, don't override
        0 = disable
        1 = use headphone control as master
        2 = swap headphone and master controls
        3 = for AD1985, turn on OMS bit and use headphone

VIA8237 & Realtek ALC658 Codec optical out (Abit KV8Pro): Problem: Sound
Mickey Mouse like, too fast, played 44100 Hz probably with 48000 Hz ?
.asoundrc solution (Alsa 1.0.8, kernel 2.6.11): ` `

       pcm.via82xx {
           type hw
           card 0
       }
       
       ctl.via82xx {
           type hw
           card 0
       }
       
       pcm.!default {
           type plug
           slave.pcm "spdif"
           slave.rate 48000
       }

'slave.rate 48000' did the trick.

-   S/PDIF Input

How does this work?

### Alternative Solution to Poor Sound Quality Problem

The previous contributor suggests using the device /dev/adsp. Using ALSA
0.9.6, I do not seem to have this device. However, I have solved all
audio quality problems by telling every application to output sound at a
sample rate of 48000 Hz, but this solution take more CPU.

For example:

-   esd -r 48000 will make esd resample all sound to 48000 Hz.
-   In XMMS, use the Crossfade Plugin to set the sample rate to 48000
    Hz.
-   In XINE, click on the configuration icon, go to the audio tab, and
    set the "if !=0 always resample to given rate" option to 48000.

You can also achieve this without having to tweak all sound
applications. Just edit .asoundrc for per-user-settings, or
/etc/asound.conf for global settings (Alsa 1.0.9, kernel 2.6.12): ` `

       pcm.!default {
           type plug
           slave.pcm "dmixer"
       }
       
       pcm.dmixer {
           type dmix
           ipc_key 1024
           slave {
               pcm "hw:0,1"
               period_time 0
               period_size 1024
               buffer_size 4096
               rate 48000
           }
           bindings {
               0 0
               1 1
           }
       }
       
       ctl.dmixer {
           type hw
           card 0
       }

This will use (a) your second sound device (pcm "hw:0,1" does this trick
- the second device on the first card) and (b) resample everything to
48000Hz (rate 48000 does this trick). It just works nicely on my system
(AMD Athlong TBird 1200). top shows \~1.0% CPU usage for aplay. Then
don't forget to restart your alsa service (easiest: reboot PC), or else
the changes won't have any effect.

### The "Poor Sound Quality Problem" solved ...

Hope this trick will help, being REALLY annoyed by these whistling
sounds coming out of my speakers each time I try to put my favourite
'Radiohead' song, I started to read the manuals. If you go into 'ALSA
0.9.x Developer documentation' section on ALSA-Project website, you will
find a very useful guide on 'Kernel OSS-Emulation' written by Takashi
Iwai. Read it, the solution resides in the possibilty to swap devices
(technically speaking it inverts the PCM pin assignment toward their
devices counterpart) by giving some options to the module (snd-pcm-oss).
For me adding the following line to my /etc/modules.conf solved the
problem: ` `

       options snd-pcm-oss dsp_map=1 (The 1 corresponds to PCM2)

It just tells the OSS module to assign PCM2 to /dev/dsp device. After
having unload/reload all modules, everything should work. Of course this
just solves the problem for those applications that use the OSS-Layer
Emulation of ALSA drivers ... Any better ideas ?

You can reach me to this adress: phoebian@free.fr

### Repeating Sounds

This driver seems to have a problem with buffering. It repeats the same
sound over and over when I play a WAV file. --A ` `

       00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 50)

Using 2.6.1 with the alsa-driver 1.0.1 copied into the tree (re:
[http://alsa.opensrc.org/index.php?page=AlsaBuild2.6](http://alsa.opensrc.org/index.php?page=AlsaBuild2.6))

I've tried all the different combinations of dxs\_support settings as
well as the dsp\_map=1 option given above, tried forcing everything to
48000 too. I always seem to get a of messages similar to (when trying to
play anything using [with and w/o esd] mpg123, xmms, alsaplayer): ` `

       request_module: failed /sbin/modprobe -- snd-card-1. error = 256
       ALSA sound/pci/via82xx.c:717: invalid via82xx_cur_ptr, using last valid pointer
       
       ALSA sound/core/pcm_lib.c:186: Unexpected hw_pointer value [1] (stream = 0, delta: -72, max jitter = 8192): wrong interrupt acknowledge?
       
       ALSA sound/core/pcm_lib.c:186: Unexpected hw_pointer value [1] (stream = 0, delta: -56, max jitter = 8192): wrong interrupt acknowledge?
       
       ALSA sound/core/pcm_lib.c:186: Unexpected hw_pointer value [1] (stream = 0, delta: -8184, max jitter = 8192): wrong interrupt acknowledge?
       
       ALSA sound/core/pcm_lib.c:186: Unexpected hw_pointer value [1] (stream = 0, delta: -488, max jitter = 8192): wrong interrupt acknowledge?

...sounds@bewb.us

### DXS channels

The newer VIA 8233 (but not 8233A) and 8235 chips support 4 DXS
channels, which can be used to play at most 4 sounds simultaneously
without using software mixing (such as dmix). However, after the DXS
support was initially implemented, it was discovered that the sound
quality is often poor. Apparently many motherboards have sound quality
problems when DXS channels are used with any sample rate except 48000
Hz. Because of this, since ALSA 0.9.7 the DXS channels by default are
set to 48000 Hz only mode. But this brings some other problems:

-   For OSS apps, the in-kernel OSS emulation layer of ALSA can perform
    sample rate conversion. However, this convertor seems to be buggy -
    after 19-20 seconds of playback the sound is garbled for several
    seconds.
-   If ALSA apps are used (or OSS apps are run with aoss), the ALSA
    library can perform sample rate conversion. But this convertor also
    has quality problems - it gives static-like noise in the output.

These problems can in many cases be avoided by setting the
'dxs\_support' module parameter appropriately. This parameter can take
one of the following values:

-   0 - the default value; set 48000 Hz only mode in most cases, except
    on some known motherboards (which are in the whitelist).
-   1 - enable full DXS support (at any supported sample rate).
-   2 - disable DXS support completely. In this case the hardware mixing
    ability of the chip is not used.
-   3 - use DXS at 48000 Hz only.
-   4 - enable DXS at any supported sample rate, but always set the
    codec to 48000 Hz (apparently on some motherboards this works better
    than dxs\_support=1).

So, if you have problems with snd-via82xx, you can try to use
dxs\_support:

-   First try 'dxs\_support=1'. Check the sound quality (both with 44100
    Hz and 48000 Hz material).
-   If the quality is still bad, try 'dxs\_support=4' and check again.
-   If none of these options give an acceptable result, you can try to
    disable DXS support completely using 'dxs\_support=2'; then you will
    need to use software mixing to play several sounds simultaneously.

If you find a value which works good for your motherboard, please report
it to the ALSA mailing list, so that it can be added to the whitelist.
Include the output of 'lspci -v' into your report (you can send just the
section for the audio controller instead of the full output).

### Problems with recording on via8233 rev.60

When you got error like this "arecord: pcm\_read:1196: read error:
Input/output error" on recording, change in alsamixer controls with name
"Input Source Select" to "Input 1".

#### [2004-04-26] Whitelist

Where do I find it?

### Still no sound but everything seems to work fine?

If your driver's starting normally and reports no errors but you still
have no sound try to tweak the alsamixer settings. ` `

       alsamixer

(If alsamixer returns an error message try to specify the card number,
eg. type alsamixer 1).

On my on-board sound card I had to mute the item "IEC958 Capture
Monitor" (second item after Phone) in order to be able to hear anything,
whereas the module was working correctly.

Retrieved from
"[http://alsa.opensrc.org/Via8233](http://alsa.opensrc.org/Via8233)"

[Category](/Special:Categories "Special:Categories"): [Sound
cards](/Category:Sound_cards "Category:Sound cards")

